MODULE M7	 WRITING THE BUSINESS PLAN ACTION POINTS
 ADVICE ON WRITING
Decide Controls
Set Maximum Words
Start Writing Early
Minimise Appendices
Aim to Guide Readers
Produce to High Quality
Avoid Use of First Person
 ADVICE ON WRITING
Decide Controls
Set Maximum Words
Start Writing Early
Minimise Appendices
Aim to Guide Readers
Produce to High Quality
Avoid Use of First Person
	
 
	
 
 ADVICE ON LAYOUT
Present in English
Submit Two Copies
Maximum 6000 Word Guideline
At Least 12 Points
Print on both sides
15mm Margin
A4 White Pages
Fully Justified Left and Right
 
 ADVICE ON LAYOUT
Present in English
Submit Two Copies
Maximum 6000 Word Guideline
At Least 12 Points
Print on both sides
15mm Margin
A4 White Pages
Fully Justified Left and Right
MODULE M7 WRITING THE BUSINESS PLAN
	
1.	Rationale
A business plan is a widely used management tool
It is used as an integrating method
It is also used for control purposes.
2.	Definition
	
Not to be confused with the project plan. The project plan can lead onto the business plan.The business plan controls the SOSTAC elements and simulation analysis.
3.	Advantages
It is better to plan on paper
To make mistakes on paper
The business plan is a map
4.	Action Points
Decide on format and controls
Set maximum number of words
Start writing easily
Get some feedback before you commit yourself to a lot of writing
Be prepared to change
Use and review frequently
Minimise appendices
Aim to guide readers
 
5.	Do’s and Don’ts
A business plan is a sustained piece of analysed writing
It is not a description of your project.
6.	Thought Provoking Questions
Q1.	How integrated is your plan?
Q2.	How often will the plan be changed?
7.	Best Sources for Help
Search www. for examples of good business plans
Consult your books for help and literature.
MODULE M7: SAMPLE TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION HEADINGS
 1.	Introduction	
 1.1	Purpose and Scope	
 1.2	About the Website	
 1.3	Web Hosting	
 2.	Architectural Prespective	
 2.1	Web Application Architecture - General Prespective	
 2.2	Website Architecture	
 3.	Technologies Used	
 3.1	Server - Side Scripting Language	
 3.2	Client - Side Scripting Language	
 3.3	Database	
 3.4	HTML	
 3.5	<Any other>	
 
 4.	Web Solution	
 4.1	Directory Structure	
 4.2	Naming Conventions	
 4.3	Screen -Wise Functionality	
 4.3.1	Description of HTML files	
 4.3.2	Description of ASP files	
 4.3.3	<Any other pages>	
 4.4	Database	
 4.4.1	Table Description	
 4.4.2	Database Design	
 4.4.3	Queries Used 	
 4.5	Testing	
 4.5.1	Introduction	
 4.5.2	Unit Test Cases	
 4.6	Quality Assurance	
 4.6.1	Technical Assurance Checklist	
 5.	Sample Code	
MODULE M7	PRODUCING THE WEB BASED SOLUTION 
1.	Rationale
It is necessary for you to demonstrate that you can produce a web based solution that can satisfy a business to business or a business to customer application
It is important that you can demonstrate that you can follow a formal development process
It is necessary for you to provide documentation of your web based solution that facilitates easy subsequent maintenance.
2	Scope
The solution should cover as a minimum the following
Web page design
Security log-on
Database maintenance
Reporting systems
Web Hosting
3.	Documentation
Must be professional. The documentation of your web based solution will demonstrate your abilities to a prospective employer. A piece of work that is of the standard produced by a major software house will mark you out as a practitioner rather than an amateur. It is strongly recommended that you follow a formal structure: sample technical documentation headings, overleaf.
Action Points
 Review design issues from earlier units.
 Try to take a staged approach so that you get a simple solution fully working before attempting a more complex solution. This way, if you run out of time before you complete the complex version, you will, nevertheless, have a working solution.
 Remember the importance of testing
 Leave time for uploading the web pages onto the server and to test them again once they are in situ.
5.	Do’s and Don’ts
 Concentrate on usability rather than technical complexity.
 Maintain good organisation of documentation
6.	Best Sources for Help
Refer to Website Design Notes
Look at professionally produced documentation.

